all right so Apple launched some new
iPads today and they invited me out to
New York to check them out they are I
mean they're they're iPads now as I was
playing with them earlier the first
thing that just kept running through my
mind is like this thing that I'm playing
with the iPad Pro with that new pencil
Pro is I think the most advanced piece
of tech that Apple has in their entire
like consumer product lineup more
advanced than their laptops like all
their it's just it's crazy it's so wild
but it's just an iPad it's like it's so
strange to me that their most advanced
Consumer
Electronic is a tablet now the reason
why I say it's like the most advanced
piece of tech that Apple makes is for a
bunch of things first that screen
there's just so much happening to be
able to pull off a 1,000 nit sustained
brightness OLED panel like you crank it
up to full brightness full screen white
pixels that's a th000 nits it's like all
the photons just just blasting into your
eyes right it's super bright and the way
that they've done it is the tech so
first the OLED is a tandem OLED display
like there's two emission layers so it
can get significantly brighter uh but to
pull that off you need to have a display
driver that can do it in an energy
efficient way that doesn't just burn out
those pixels like I think if people
wanted to if companies wanted to anybody
could make a thousand nit display it's
just that it would have Burnin issues
within hours of using it right but
Apple's pulled it off the way that you
prevent burning I think is to use that
tandem OLED Tech but then in order to
drive that those two displays or those
two layers you need to have the type of
tech that's in that M4 chip to be able
to have the Energy Efficiency to make
the display drivers be able to pull it
off like it's just so much stuff has to
be in the right place and the right
timing to make that display hit 1,000
nits sustained and they've done it and
it is a very bright screen now visually
when I look at that panel it doesn't
look special in terms of like the actual
image quality if you look at like a
Samsung Tab S9 Ultra that's an also a
really nice display but that thing hits
like five maybe 600 nits Peak at uh fur
like sustained right so it's really just
the brightness that you're getting out
of this Tech but it's very impressive
that they're able to do it and even
laptops like the latest laptops those
hit like also five maybe 600 for
sustained brightness it's really hard to
hit 1,000 the thing to keep in mind
though 1,000 knits isn't double the
brightness of 500 it's like you double
the knit count you maybe get 25 maybe
30% more perceived brightness but it's
still a really bright screen um and then
when it comes to HDR content because it
hit 1600 Peak like for like little parts
of the screen hitting 1600 nits it's a
really nice looking screen but then on
top of that these iPad Pros are super
thin the 131 in particular is like crazy
thin 5.1 mm the 11in is a little bit
thicker but they're both very thin and
light and then also the M4 chip again
it's crazy that the M4 chip first
appeared in a tablet but it's here and
very energy efficient supposedly and
also really strong performance it seems
like a really good chip but I think
that's something you need to test uh
extensively and I'll probably get into
that in my review the other thing that
was really neat so those displays they
have an option for this Nano texture
it's like a it's like a a finish that is
a slightly diffused kind of coating or a
diffused finish on the top of it now the
first thing I thought was like when I
saw it in the announcement I was like
there's no way they're allowing people
just you scratch a pencil on it right
like the apple pencil because they have
a coating like that a kind of matte
finish for their uh Studio display
unlike the xdr display and those
finishes on their monitors are so
delicate they Supply a very special like
cleaning cloth for it and it's just like
a it's a delicate finish but on the iPad
I know it's not the exact same finish
but they're just allowing people to just
you just use your pencil no problems you
just scratch away it and I was like wow
now I mean it's obviously not for
everyone a coding like that I do think
that when I was looking at the image
it's not as sharp as like a regular
glossy finish but for a lot of people
like you could see in the demo like in
that area where shooting
a lot of overhead lights the pot lights
and they're just reflecting off these
screens like crazy but on the uh on that
matte coating or that matte finish it's
just like a a nice reduction in glare so
if that's the kind of work environment
that you're in or if the that's just
what you're after they now have that
option interestingly it doesn't like
that coating doesn't go around the whole
screen it's only on the display portion
itself like the bezel they've kept it
uncoated or unfinished which I think
from a design choice is kind of neat but
it's like I can't really oh I just it's
because of the the front facing camera
because if they put a coding on the
camera the it just be you'd be looking
at a fuzzy image the whole time and
speaking of the cameras for all of the
iPads the front-facing camera is now
mounted on that landscape Edge uh the
other thing I thought was really neat
was that pencil so the new Apple pencil
Pro the most interesting thing to me is
that new squeeze capability like you can
squeeze it as a gesture and now it can
pull up menu in certain apps so the
developers have to do it like they have
to implement that API so that when you
squeeze it you can do certain things in
apps but that brings so much more
utility to the apple pencil that just it
couldn't have existed before uh with
like the older versions of the apple
pencil now that haptic bump there's like
a little motor on the inside so that you
know certain times it gives you a little
bit of a tactile feedback it's really
subtle I think there's utility to it for
sure like for people that are using
professional apps and you have a
workflow and you want to just make sure
that you performed an action or you you
did something that taptic feedback is
really nice but I don't think for the
average person it does anything it is
really neat though and the fact that
they're able to stick that tiny motor
inside that device really cool now that
Barrel rolling orientation like the
whole ability to just like adjust the
the
rotational configuration of the apple
pencil if I'm using that word right is
so cool like it's really neat but I
think in order to really appreciate it
you have to be some kind of like digital
illustrator or some artist because for
me when I looked at him like this tool
looks really neat if I knew how to draw
but uh the tech is really cool I have
seen that before on a few older devices
but I remember on one of the Wacom
tablets that had that Tech I remember
the battery life being like horrifically
short so it's neat that they're able to
pull this off again on like a
rechargeable thing like that I it's it's
cool I don't like that this new app
pencil Pro doesn't work with the old
iPad Pros now they saying that they they
changed the charging mechanism on the
inside be able to fit everything and
because of that change you can no longer
charge this new pencil with the old
magnetic Chargers
maybe I hope it's not some kind of like
product segregation they're going for
but it's it it still sucks regardless uh
the other thing the new keyboard so the
ones that fit on the new iPad Pros the
larger 13-in one in particular that one
feels just like a regular laptop
keyboard the metal finish and the metal
trackpad it just feels like it just
feels like you would expect like a
MacBook to feel okay that basically
wraps it up there's so much stuff but
that'll have to come in the review
because I feel like a lot of the
thoughts I have I want to kind of test
it out and give proper feedback on the
actual device okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video just a
quick uh first impression of these
devices